---
title: Pedantry
date: 2019-02-03 11:49:00 -08:00
extract: Talking down instead of talking up.
---

There’s a guy that’s famous for sliding into conversations between type folks when they’re having a discussion on Twitter. He’ll always break up the party with a “well actually” no matter what the topic or who happens to be speaking. Even if they’re the foremost expert in the field he’ll always find something snarky or mean to say.

On this note, typography is often mistaken for knowing about the right fonts and remembering the names or styles of typefaces. Subsequently typography is often the pedant’s weapon of choice for making people feel dumb. And just as design is not the art of having opinions and tweeting about them, typography is not the art of dunking on people that say ‘fonts’ inside of ‘type’.

And I see the same thing happening in front-end development circles where there’s a collection of cool dudes that will always punch down, always fill the conversation with snark and cynicism. Their voices are loud and carry out over the vast landscape with retweets and likes.

This is sort of a duh obvious thing to say but Twitter incentivizes this quality of conversation somehow. I wonder what would happen if statistics about retweets, likes and followers were disabled. If you were just a person on Twitter instead of a brand ambassador for X, Y, or Z.  I bet we wouldn’t be having these types of arguments if we couldn’t see how many people liked/retweeted a thread.

These conversations are performative and now I feel weird sharing my work or thoughts on Twitter. I keep posting short missives from this here blog and I always end up deleting them when I find my earnestness bundled between hundreds of snarky tweets.

Sometimes I find myself writing in this way, too. Talking down, instead of talking up. 
