---
title: 20,000 Days on Earth
date: 2019-01-26 10:45:00 -08:00
tags:
- Nick Cave
extract: And a note about the weather.
---

One of my favorite films is Nick Cave’s *[20,000 Days on Earth](https://letterboxd.com/film/20000-days-on-earth/)* which is part documentary and part autobiographic visual essay. Throughout the film Nick talks about his writing, his music making, how he met Kylie Minogue, and how he fell in love with his wife. At certain moments his friends will appear next to Nick in his car like ghosts that forever haunt him. They’ll talk about how performing live on stage, about their work together, and give a short interview that’s sort of haunting as they disappear without saying goodbye.

I’ve watched this film four times now and with each viewing I find something else that’s mesmerizing about it. This time around I noticed Nick’s obsession with the weather; his journals describe Brighton’s storms as something unrelenting, a warning and portent of the future. 

In one moment, Nick looks up as clouds smash into one another and lighting crackles on the horizon. “The sky in Brighton is unlike anything I’ve ever seen,” he says. “What I fear most is nature—now that it’s sent it’s weather to exact revenge...soon the weather will put on a real show.”

“You know I can control the weather with my moods,” Nick is driving down the main thoroughfare of Brighton’s seaside and everything else is out of focus. 

“I just can’t control my moods.”

Nick writes in a way that makes me mad with jealousy. It’s the last panel of a comic book stuff. You the know the one, where all is lost and the double page spread ends on a note of tragedy, but the hero is defiant against all odds and all those calamitous tragedies that have led to this; our hero has lost and yet he’s still smiling that big, invincible smile. 