---
title: Homesick
date: 2020-06-15T15:49:09.581Z
city: San Francisco
country: California
extract: I just miss it all like hell.
---
Good morning! Today I'm homesick. Although it is most certainly weird to use that word, _home_, when speaking of the UK so I'm not sure what would be a better an alternative. 

I just miss it all like hell.

I miss dark pubs in the Westcountry and the radioactive smell of vinegar on fish and chips. I miss the brooding skies and the seagulls and the knife-like winds, the mean jokes between friends. I miss my self-destructive, racist family and I miss the London Underground. I miss the...okay maybe I don’t miss much about Plymouth at all. But England, as an idea, as a concept, is something I long for. 

I know I have an odd relationship with the UK. It’s always been a place that I’m running away from, a place to abandon in the middle of the night. Especially with Brexit where I fundamentally disagree with almost everyone about the subject. And those that I do happen to agree with are too scared to fight for what’s right. God it still makes me so angry. It makes me want to rip up my passport and never return.

Anyway. Today I am not a street fighting man. I just miss cobblestone paths and red brick buildings and being entirely alone and sad in London, despite me never having lived there. And I dearly miss the way British people cuss.

I suppose that’s one of many reasons that leaving the UK was a good idea. Now I can return with a map in hand, casually dropping American slang everywhere I go as my Westcountry accent slowly fades and I become a tourist in my own home.

