---
layout: layouts/note.njk
title: v19
date: 2026-01-05T20:27:44-08:00
city: San Francisco
country: California
extract: A new website appears.
---

Watch out: a new website appears! Yesterday I published the ninenteeth official version of this website and this time round it’s inspired by the work I’ve done on developer tools these last few years. It’s my own personal IDE: you can navigate files, open up folders, and see how I’d organize an operating system. 

My favorite bit of the new update is what I’ve done with Photos. For a good long while I’ve felt that I need a somewhat-private space to develop my photo skills, but I don’t want to be tied to anyone else’s platform. I don’t want to think about Likes, man. So for now I’ve uploaded just a few things to test the layout system out. 

This redesign also reminded me just how powerful the web is now. Perhaps not a shocker to a lot of folks, but even humble tools like the details element and CSS Grid can be used in ways that are genuinely breathtaking. What would have taken me hours to figure out a few years ago was just a few click-clack lines of CSS yesterday.

Next steps? Tweak the 11ty image plugin for sure. There’s some problems I’ve introduced with it, even though the plugin is genuinely magic and ultimately will improve everyone’s experience of clicking around. Maybe I could add more typography and layout options, too? Oh and keyboard shortcuts. Oh, oh, oh and add a feed for photos. And maybe a books section? And and and…yes yes yes...
